update the auto mtls troubleshooting guide. (#9493)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/ops/common-problems/security-issues/index.md

If everything appears to be working so far, the next step is to verify that the right [authentication policy](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/authn-policy/)
is applied and the right destination rules are in place.

If you suspect the client side sidecar may send mutual TLS or plaintext traffic incorrectly, check the
[Grafana Workload dashboard](/docs/ops/integrations/grafana/). The outbound requests are annotated whether mTLS

>  is used or not. After checking this if you believe the client sidecars are mis-behaved, report an issue on Github.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 is used or not. After checking this if you believe the client sidecars are misbehaved, report an issue on GitHub.
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -n foo -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
    $ istioctl proxy-config clusters ${POD}.foo -ojson | grep 'name.*outbound.*httpbin' -A130
    "name": "outbound|8000||httpbin.default.svc.cluster.local",
    ...
    "transportSocketMatches": [
            {
                "name": "tlsMode-istio",
                "match": {
                    "tlsMode": "istio"
                },
                "transportSocket": {
                    "name": "envoy.transport_sockets.tls",
                    "typedConfig": {
                        "@type": "type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.transport_sockets.tls.v3.UpstreamTlsContext",
                        "commonTlsContext": ...
            }
            {
                "name": "tlsMode-disabled",
                "match": {},
                "transportSocket": {
                    "name": "envoy.transport_sockets.raw_buffer"
                }
            }
    {{< /text >}}

1. Check the destination pod to see if the destination endpoint has the label
`tlsMode` equals to `istio`.

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -n foo -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})

Reviewer 2: nit: the title says to check the destination pod but the example command is using sleep not httpbin?

Author: yes that's intended since we are checking the source side EDS response. I added a sentence for clarification.

    $ IP=$(kubectl get pod -lapp=sleep -o jsonpath="{.items[*].status.podIP}")
    $ kubectl exec -it ${POD} -c istio-proxy -- curl 'localhost:15000/config_dump?include_eds=true' | grep ${IP} -A15 -B5
      "endpoint": {
        "address": {
        "socket_address": {
            "address": "10.32.28.136",
            "port_value": 80
        }
        ...
        "metadata": {
          "filter_metadata": {
            "envoy.transport_socket_match": {
              "tlsMode": "istio"
            }
        },
    {{< /text >}}

1. Check Envoy upstream debug log to confirm what transport socket configuration is being
used. This requires to change Envoy upstream log to debug level.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
    $ istioctl pc log sleep-8f795f47d-rfhdt --level debug

>     2021-04-08T22:35:22.650478Z     debug   envoy upstream  transport socket match, socket tlsMode-istio selected for host with address 10.32.28.136:80

Reviewer 2: this is the actual log and not the output of the istioctl command? I think we should include the specific command for getting the log.

Author: done.

    {{< /text >}}

    The log line above indicates that mTLS socket is selected for the connection to the
    corresponding host. Please note that the connection creation might be done in advance

>     of the actual request, if you don't see such log line, try to recreate destination side

Reviewer 3: Not sure how to `try to recreate destination side endpoint`

Author: My understanding based on the experiment: the connection pool caches some connection to the specific hosts in advance, therefore users might not see the log line of "transport socket xxx is selected" by the time they do `exec -- curl` from sleep pod. Recreating destination pod, would force client envoy to go through connection pool initialization logic again.

Author: Feel free to suggest some other wording to make it clearer.

If everything appears to be working so far, the next step is to verify that the right [authentication policy](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/authn-policy/)
is applied and the right destination rules are in place.

### Auto mTLS

If you suspect [auto mTLS](/docs/reference/glossary#auto-mtls) is not working

> as expected, please first read the

Reviewer 4: Should reword this, comes across as a little RTFM. Why are you asking them to read the documentation, is there something in particular in there to help them troubleshoot?

Reviewer 5: +1, how would user know when it is not working?  I guess service A won't be able to call service B with 503?

Author: updated.

[documentation](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/authn-policy/#auto-mutual-tls)
and understand that [workload level](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/authn-policy/#enable-mutual-tls-per-workload) 

> peer authentication policies require corresponding destination rule configuration.

Reviewer 2: I think this is to say auto mTLS is not supported on workload level and that's why it needs corresponding DR? could we make it clear for this unsupported case so that the user can get the point very quickly?

Reviewer 6: Even better, part of istioctl :slightly_smiling_face: . I understand its not easy though

Author: done.

When workload level peer authentication is used, you need to configure a corresponding

> destination rule configuration to let client sidecar send mTLS or plaintext

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
destination rule configuration to configure the client sidecar to send mTLS or plaintext
```

Author: removed.

traffic correctly.

> If you still think there's an issue, follow the instructions below for

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If there still seems to be an issue, follow the instructions below to
```

Reviewer 5: could we clarify if this is a temp limitation or permanent?  e.g. is this going to be resolved in a future release?

Author: removed. this is mentioned in the authn policy use reference here now.

putting aside, i don't think we have to make a statement on this limitation  in the troubleshooting guide anyhow.

> investigation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
troubleshoot.
```

Author: removed.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -n foo -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})

>     $ istioctl proxy-config clusters ${POD}.foo -ojson

Reviewer 2: the output is much longer, can we include some `grep` command to quickly locate the relevant lines?

    "transportSocketMatches": [
            {
                "name": "tlsMode-istio",
                "match": {
                    "tlsMode": "istio"
                },
                "transportSocket": {
                    "name": "envoy.transport_sockets.tls",
                    "typedConfig": {
                        "@type": "type.googleapis.com/envoy.extensions.transport_sockets.tls.v3.UpstreamTlsContext",
                        "commonTlsContext": ...
            }
            {
                "name": "tlsMode-disabled",
                "match": {},
                "transportSocket": {
                    "name": "envoy.transport_sockets.raw_buffer"
                }
            }
    {{< /text >}}

1. Check the destination pod to see if the destination endpoint has the label
`tlsMode` equals to `istio`.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -n foo -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})

>     $ ISTIOD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=istiod -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name}))

Reviewer 2: there is an extra `)` in the end of the command, also add the `-n istio-system`

Author: gone now.

>     $ kubectl exec -it ${ISTIOD} -nistio-system -- curl "localhost:8080/debug/edsz?proxyID=${POD}"

Reviewer 2: Similar here, probably should include a `grep` command to quickly quickly find the relevant lines

Reviewer 6: I would use `pilot-agent request GET config_dump?include_eds=true` on the pod, not istiod.

Author: done. i remember eds dump was introduced newish, but should  be fine.

> `tlsMode` equals to `istio`. For example, in the EDS response received by sleep

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`tlsMode` equal to `istio`. For example, in the EDS response received by the sleep
```

Author: removed.

> pod, we see `httpbin` pod endpoint has the `tlsMode` label.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
pod, we see that the `httpbin` pod endpoint has the `tlsMode` label.
```

Author: removed.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -n foo -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
    $ IP=$(kubectl get pod -lapp=sleep -o jsonpath="{.items[*].status.podIP}")
    $ kubectl exec -it ${POD} -c istio-proxy -- curl 'localhost:15000/config_dump?include_eds=true' | grep ${IP} -A15 -B5
      "endpoint": {
        "address": {
        "socket_address": {
            "address": "10.32.28.136",
            "port_value": 80
        }
        ...
        "metadata": {
          "filter_metadata": {
            "envoy.transport_socket_match": {
              "tlsMode": "istio"
            }
        },
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Check Envoy upstream debug log to confirm what transport socket configuration is being

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Check the Envoy upstream debug log to confirm what transport socket configuration is being
```

Author: removed.

used. This requires to change Envoy upstream log to debug level.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})

>     $ istioctl pc log ${POD} --level debug

Reviewer 2: nit: `istioctl proxy-config log ${POD} --level "upstream:debug"` to only enable the upstream debug log.

    $ kubectl logs -f ${POD} -c istio-proxy
    2021-04-08T22:35:22.650478Z     debug   envoy upstream  transport socket match, socket tlsMode-istio selected for host with address 10.32.28.136:80
    {{< /text >}}

>     The log line above indicates that mTLS socket is selected for the connection to the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    The log line above indicates that an mTLS socket is selected for the connection to the
```

>     $ ic pc log sleep-8f795f47d-rfhdt --level debug

Reviewer 2: use `istioctl` instead of `ic`

Author: done.

    corresponding host. Please note that the connection creation might be done in advance

>     of the actual request, if you don't see such log line, try to recreate destination side

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    of the actual request, so if you don't see this log line try to recreate the destination
```

Author: Removed.

>     endpoint.

Reviewer 5: Sorry you said a bunch of things to troubleshoot, but it is unclear what action users should take.  Are you suggesting them to add destination rule with strict mTLS in it to fix it?  Needs a conclusion on exact what action to do to fix/workaround this.

Author: Updated now with concrete AI for users.
